good morning we're doing the Crystal
River today we're at Mara Lake there's a
300-yard portage to get down here but I
think it'll be worth it the shuttle goes
like this from the Whispering Pines unit
of Hartman Creek State Park
you'll south a half a mile to rural road
turn left after three and a half miles
Royal Road will turn into Highway K
continue driving east an additional 1.2
miles to the tiny town of little hope
take out as a small roadside park on the
right side of the road the crystal is
filled by the waters flowing out of the
Waupaca Chain of Lakes Morrow Lake where
we put in is a small very pretty Lake
turquoise colored water if you don't
mind a little longer shuttle and missing
some of the lake paddling it could also
put in at night Road
the river begins at the very southern
tip of Long Lake right away after
entering it you'll be greeted by fun
little riffles formed by the river
dropping at a rate of at least 5 feet
per mile it's clear to see how the river
got its name the water is perfectly
crystal clear
[Applause]
not long into your paddle he'll come to
the small hamlet of rural but first
there's a short portage to be made
around the dam caution paddle through
the left archway this is what we'll find
under the right arts
[Applause]
after rural to River spreads out to form
a marshy lake the outlet is to your left
right away the river gets back to its
roughly self
[Applause]
near the spot where real road becomes I
would pay on the subtle well the
function he said abacus pass through is
pretty straightforward can't the Fuji
skating we could always stop during
subtle the scouted consortium
[Applause]
not far after the rapid the river backs
up again to form another lake just
before the take out
after paddling about six miles behind
your trip when you're pulling the boats
out onto the shore off to the right side
of the dam
see you on the next River